# Messages

While [formatters](/docs/formatters.md) are crucial to contextualizing alerts, it doesn't matter much if the alerts are never sent. This is where messages come in to play.

``nagios-herald`` provides a base Message class (``Message::Base``) from which all Message subclasses inherit.  ``Message::Base`` knows that all messages have content and recipients; it's the job of the Message subclasses to define additional behavior (such as how to send a message).

Three message types are defined in ``nagios-herald``: Email, Pager, and IRC.  The IRC class must be subclassed by a custom message class so that the ``send`` function can be implemented.  Feel free to cook up any new message types (i.e. CarrierPigeon, SmokeSignal) as you see fit.

## Getting Content into Messages

Content generated by formatters is assigned to a message in ``Executor`` via the following code:

```ruby
formatter.generate_message_content
message.content = formatter.content
```

## Writing and Using Custom Message Classes

You may write your own message classes and use them with nagios-herald.  These message classes can live in any location.  A custom message class should subclass Message::Base.

### Custom Message Class Command Configuration

To use a custom message class, you must add a stanza to ``commands.cfg`` that defineds a command that uses that message class.  Commands for custom messages must provide a ``message-type`` that matches your message class name as well as a ``message-dir`` that specifies the directory in which your custom message class is stored.

```
# notify by carrier pigeon
define command {
    command_name    notify-host-by-pigeon
    command_line    /usr/local/nagios-herald/bin/nagios-herald --message-dir=/usr/local/nagios-herald-messages/ --message-type=pigeon --formatter=$_HOSTMESSAGE_FORMATTER_NAME$ --nagios-cgi-url=http://nagios.example.com/nagios/cgi-bin/cmd.cgi --reply-to=nagios@example.com
}

define command {
    command_name    notify-service-by-pigeon
    command_line    /usr/local/nagios-herald/bin/nagios-herald --message-dir=/usr/local/nagios-herald-messages/ --message-type=pigeon --formatter=$_SERVICEMESSAGE_FORMATTER_NAME$ --nagios-cgi-url=http://nagios.example.com/nagios/cgi-bin/cmd.cgi --reply-to=nagios@example.com
}
```

### Using Custom Message Class Commands

To use your custom message class, you can specify the ``command_name`` that uses your message class as a host or service notification command for a contact.  As you can specify multiple notification commands for a single contact, you may specify a custom message command along with the command for a provided message to send multiple kinds of messages:

```
define contact {
        ...
        service_notification_commands   notify-service-by-email,notify-service-by-carrier-pigeon
}
```

The formatter specified using ``message_formatter_name`` in the host or service will be used for all message types.

If your custom message type is different enough from the other message types that use a certain formatter, it may be necessary to use a new key in the ``content`` hash to add content specific to that message type.  Content should be added to the ``content`` hash in the formatter; the ``send`` function of the custom message class should then use that content to construct and send the message.

As an example example, the ``CarrierPigeon`` message class may send text contained in ``content[:handwritten]``.  A formatter that is used with the ``CarrierPigeon`` class should implement a method that adds content to ``handwritten`` sections just as the ``add_html()`` method adds content to ``html`` sections.  The formatter should add content that should be delivered by carrier pigeon to the ``handwritten`` hash and still add content to be delivered in an HTML email to the ``html`` hash using the ``add_html()`` method.

Finally, it should be noted that you can add custom object variables for individual contacts that can later be accessed by a custom message class using the ``get_nagios_var()`` library function:

```
define contact {
        ...
        service_notification_commands   notify-service-by-irc-channel
        _irc_channel                    performance
}
```


### Naming Convention

* File names **MUST** be lower-cased and underscored.
* Class names **MUST** be CamelCased.
* A ``message-type`` specified on the command line (or in a command definition) should match a snake_cased message class name *with the exception that* a class name that is all upper case should be written as one word.
** The ``message-type`` for a class named ``CarrierPigeon`` is ``carrier_pigeon``
** The ``message-type`` for a class named ``IRC`` is ``irc``
** The ``message-type`` for a class named ``InternalIrc`` is ``internal_irc``
** The ``message-type`` for a class named ``InternalIRC`` is ``internal_i_r_c``
